.\" This code is licensed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE,
.\" see also http://www.gnu.org.
.TH "gtklpq" "1" "" "Tobias Mueller" "Printing"
.SH "NAME"
gtklpq \- manage print queues via CUPS
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBgtklpq\fR [\-P|\-d \fIprinter\fR] [\-S \fIserver\fR] [\-p \fIport\fR] [\-D] [\-V] [\-U \fIuser\fR] [\-t \fItimeout\fR] [\-g \fIX\fRx\fIY\fR] [\-C] [\-h] [\-E]

\fBlpq\fR [\-P|\-d \fIprinter\fR] [\-S \fIserver\fR] [\-p \fIport\fR] [\-D] [\-V] [\-U \fIuser\fR] [\-t \fItimeout\fR] [\-E]

\fBlprm\fR [\-P|\-d \fIprinter\fR] [\-S \fIserver\fR] [\-p \fIport\fR] [\-D] [\-V] [\-U \fIuser\fR] [\-E] [\-] [job ID(s)]

\fBreject\fR [\-h \fIserver\fR] [\-p \fIport\fR] [\-D] [\-V] [\-U \fIuser\fR] [\-E] [\-r \fIreason\fR] [destination(s)]

\fBaccept\fR [\-h \fIserver\fR] [\-p \fIport\fR] [\-D] [\-V] [\-U \fIuser\fR] [\-E] [\-r \fIreason\fR] [destination(s)] 

\fBdisable\fR [\-h \fIserver\fR] [\-c] [\-p \fIport\fR] [\-D] [\-V] [\-U \fIuser\fR] [\-E] [\-r \fIreason\fR] [destination(s)]

\fBenable\fR [\-h \fIserver\fR] [\-p \fIport\fR] [\-D] [\-V] [\-U \fIuser\fR] [\-E] [\-r \fIreason\fR] [destination(s)] 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBGtkLPQ\fR is an graphical frontend for \fICUPS\fR, the Common UNIX Printing System.
.br 
It is used to manage CUPS\-Printqueues.
.br 
.TP 5
.br 
GtkLPQ
.br 
Graphical Frontend
.TP 5
lpq
.br 
Show print queue
.TP 5
lprm
.br 
Remove jobs
.TP 5
disable/enable
.br 
Disable/enable printer
.TP 5
reject/accept
.br 
Reject/Accept printjobs for this printer
.TP 0
.br 
\fBGtkLPQ\fR is part of the \fBGtkLP\fR\-package.
.SH "OPTIONS"
The following options are recognized by \fBgtklpq\fR:
.TP 5
\-P \fIprinter\fR
.br 
Use \fIprinter\fR as default destination.
.TP 5
\-d \fIprinter\fR
.br 
This option is equivalent to "\-P".
.TP 5
\-S \fIserver\fR
.br 
The name of the CUPS\-Server.
.TP 5
\-p \fIport\fR
.br 
The port of CUPS\-Server, 631 per default.
.TP 5
\-D
.br 
Debug.
.TP 5
\-V
.br 
Displays the version of \fBGtkLPQ\fR.
.TP 5
\-U \fIuser\fR
.br 
The name of the cups\-User to use.
.TP 5
\-t \fItimeout\fR
.br 
The intervall in seconds between two queue\-updates.
.TP 5
\-g \fIX\fRx\fIY\fR
.br 
Pop up GtkLPQ at position (X,Y).
.TP 5
\-h
.br 
Help
.TP 5
\-C
.br 
Force console\-mode.
.TP 5
\-E
.br 
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 0
.br 
.br 
If called as lpq, the following options differ from GtkLPQ`s options:
.TP 5
\-X
.br 
Force X\-Mode, even if GTKLP_FORCEX is not set to 1
.TP 0
.br .br 
If called as lprm, the following options differ from GtkLPQ`s options:
.TP 5
\-
.br 
Cancel all jobs
.TP 0
.br 
Without any given jobs, lprm removes the current job.
.TP 0
.br .br 
If called as disable, the following options differ from GtkLPQ`s options:
.TP 5
\-c
.br 
Cancel all jobs
.TP 5
\-r reason
Give an reason, why you do so

.TP 0
.br .br 
If called as reject, the following options differ from GtkLPQ`s options:
.TP 5
\-r reason
Give an reason, why you do so
.SH "PATHS"
To hide Printers from users, use the following pathes:
.br 
\fI/etc/gtklp/accept/\fR
.br 
\fI/etc/gtklp/deny/\fR
.br 
\fI$HOME/.gtklp/\fR
.br 

Just put an empty file with the name of the printer the user
should see by default to \fIaccept\fR,
put an empty file with the name of the printer the user
should never see to \fIdeny\fR.
.br 
The \fIaccept\fR values can be overwritten by the user, the 
\fIdeny\fR values can't. 
.SH "SPECIAL"
If you can`t connect to an X\-Server, GtkLPQ acts as console\-lpq.

If called as lpq, enable, disable, accept, or reject, GtkLPQ acts on console like these tools and has some other command\-line parameters, see above.

.SH "VARIABLES"
You can set the following environment variables to influence the behaviour of GtkLPQ:
.TP 5
CUPS_SERVER
.br 
The default CUPS\-server to connect to
.TP 5
IPP_PORT
.br 
The default Port of the CUPS\-server to connect to
.TP 5
PRINTER
.br 
The default printer to use
.TP 5
GTKLP_FORCEX
.br 
Set to 1 to force X\-Mode for lpr and lp
.SH "ERROR"
GtkLPQ produces the follwoing Error\-Codes:
.TP 5
0
normal program termination
.br 
.TP 5
1
small error, wrong parameters, etc.
.br 
.TP 5
2
Server Problems, server not found, no default printer found, etc.
.br 
.TP 5
3
BAD error. Fields declared too short, too many printers, etc.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gtklp(1), lprm(1), lp(1), CUPS Software Users Manual
.br 
http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This program was written by T. Mueller, 2000, 2001, 2002.
.br 
It is licensed under the Terms of the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, 
.br 
see also http://www.gnu.org.

.SH "CONTACT"
The latest version of \fBGtkLPQ\fR is always available under
.br 
http://gtklp.sourceforge.net/
.br 
It is part of the \fBGtkLP\fR\-package.
.br 
Feel also free to contact me.
.br 
Please mail also, if you like the software !!! ;\-)
