.\" This code is licensed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE,
.\" see also http://www.gnu.org.
.\" 
.TH "gtklp" "1" "" "Tobias Mueller" "Printing"
.SH "NAME"
gtklp \- print files via CUPS
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBgtklp\fR [\-P|\-d \fIprinter\fR] [\-c \fIconfigdir\fR] [\-S|\-h \fIserver\fR] [\-p \fIport\fR] [\-l] [\-D] [\-V] [\-b] [\-i] [\-F] [\-H] [\-C] [\-U \fIuser\fR] [\-#|\-n \fIn\fR] [\-E] [\-q \fIpriority\fR] [\-t|\-J \fIjobname\fR] [\-o \fIoption=value\fR ... ][\fIfile(s)\fR]

\fBlp\fR [\-d \fIprinter\fR] [\-S|\-h \fIserver\fR] [\-p \fIport\fR] [\-D] [\-V] [\-b] [\-U \fIuser\fR] [\-#|\-n \fIn\fR] [\-E] [\-q \fIpriority\fR] [\-t|\-J \fIjobname\fR] [\-P \fIpage\-list\fR [\-H handling] [\-X] [\-o \fIoption=value\fR ... ][\fIfile(s)\fR]

\fBlpr\fR [\-P|\-d \fIprinter\fR] [\-S|\-h \fIserver\fR] [\-p \fIport\fR] [\-D] [\-V] [\-b] [\-U \fIuser\fR] [\-#|\-n \fIn\fR] [\-E] [\-q \fIpriority\fR] [\-t|\-J|\-C|\-T \fIjobname\fR] [\-X] [\-o \fIoption=value\fR ... ][\fIfile(s)\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBGtkLP\fR is an graphical frontend for \fICUPS\fR, the Common UNIX Printing System.
.br 
It is used to have an easy (and graphical) access to all of the many options
of cups\-managed printers.
.SH "OPTIONS"
The following options are recognized by \fBgtklp\fR:
.TP 5
\-P \fIprinter\fR
.br 
Use \fIprinter\fR as default destination.
.TP 5
\-d \fIprinter\fR
.br 
This option is equivalent to "\-P".
.TP 5
\-c \fIconfigdir\fR
.br 
Use \fIconfigdir\fR to set an alternative path to the configfiles for \fBGtkLP\fR.
.br 
.TP 5
\-S \fIserver\fR
.br 
The name of the CUPS\-Server.
.TP 5
\-h \fIserver\fR
.br 
The same as \-S.
.TP 5
\-p \fIport\fR
.br 
The port of CUPS\-Server, 631 per default.
.TP 5
\-l
.br 
Only list the chosen options as a list of commandline\-parameters for lpr.
.br 
Nice for scripting purposes...
.TP 5
\-D
.br 
Debug.
.TP 5
\-V
.br 
Displays the version of \fBGtkLP\fR.
.TP 5
\-b
.br 
Use builtin defaults instead of saved options
.TP 5
\-i
.br 
Ignore data on stdin.
.br 
Sometimes useful, e.g. for printing from some versions of the Acrobat Reader.
.TP 5
\-F
.br 
Hide the File\-Tab if file is given at the command\-line.
.TP 5
\-U \fIuser\fR
.br 
The name of the cups\-User to use.
.TP 5
\-# \fIn\fR
.br 
Make \fIn\fR copies per default.
.TP 5
\-n \fIn\fR
.br 
The same as \-#.
.TP 5
\-H
.br 
Help
.TP 5
\-C
.br 
Force console\-mode
.TP 5
\-o \fIoption=value\fR
.br 
Specify extra options, same syntax as lpr
.TP 5
\-E
.br 
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
\-q \fIpriority\fR
.br 
Specify the priority of the print job, from 1 (lowest) to 100 (highest)
.TP 5
\-t \fIjobname\fR
.br 
Specify the jobname
.TP 5
\-J \fIjobname\fR
.br 
The same as \-t.
.TP 0
.br 
.br 
If called as lp, the following options differ from GtkLP`s options:
.TP 5
\-X
Force X\-Mode, even if GTKLP_FORCEX is not set to 1
.BR 
.TP 5
\-P \fIpage\-list\fR
.br 
Specifies which pages to print in the  document.  The
list  can  contain a list of numbers and ranges (#\-#)
separated by commas (e.g. 1,3\-5,16).
.br 
.TP 5
\-H \fIhandling\fR
Specifies  when the job should be printed. A value of
\fIimmediate\fR will print the file immediately, a value of
\fIhold\fR will hold the job indefinitely, and a time value
(HH:MM) will hold the job until the  specified  time.
(does this option work ?)
.TP 0
.br 
.br 
If called as lpr, the following options differ from GtkLP`s options:
.TP 5
\-X
Force X\-Mode, even if GTKLP_FORCEX is not set to 1
.BR 
.TP 5
\-C \fIjobname\fR
Specify the jobname
.BR 
.TP 5
\-T \fIjobname\fR
The same as \-C.
.BR 
.TP 5
\-p
Specifies that the print  file  should  be  formatted
with  a  shaded header with the date, time, job name,
and  page  number.  This  option  is  equivalent   to
"\-oprettyprint" and is only useful when printing text
files.
.BR 
.TP 5
\-l
Specifies that the print file  is  already  formatted
for  the  destination and should be sent without 
filtering. This option is equivalent to "\-oraw".
.TP 0
.BR 
Some other options from systemv`s lp and berkeley`s lpr are ignored
without error message
.SH "PATHS"
\fBGtkLP\fR looks for config\-files under
.br 
\fI<configdir>\fR
.br 
then under
.br 
\fI$HOME/.gtklp/\fR
.br 
and at last under
.br 
\fI/etc/gtklp/\fR.
.br 

To hide Printers from users, use the following pathes:
.br 
\fI/etc/gtklp/accept/\fR
.br 
\fI/etc/gtklp/deny/\fR
.br 
\fI$HOME/.gtklp/\fR
.br 

Just put an empty file with the name of the printer the user
should see by default to \fIaccept\fR,
put an empty file with the name of the printer the user
should never see to \fIdeny\fR.
If only \fIaccept\fR exists, all but the accepted printers are allowed. 
If only \fIdeny\fR exists, all but the denied printers are accepted. 
.br 
All users can \fIdeny\fR accepted printers, but they can't unhide denied ones.
.SH "SPECIAL"
In GtkLP you can define a browser to open the help URL, the CUPS\-Homepage and so on.
Just use the your favorite HTML browser. The first $1 in command\-line will be substituted
by the URL.

If you can't connect to an X\-Server, GtkLP acts as console\-lpr.

If called as lpr, or lp, GtkLP acts on console and has some other command\-line parameters, see above.
.SH "VARIABLES"
You can set the following environment variables to influence the behaviour of GtkLP:
.TP 5
CUPS_SERVER
.br 
The default CUPS\-server to connect to
.TP 5
IPP_PORT
.br 
The default Port of the CUPS\-server to connect to
.TP 5
PRINTER
.br 
The default printer to use
.TP 5
GTKLP_FORCEX
.br 
Set to 1 to force X\-Mode for lpr and lp
.SH "ERROR"
GtkLP produces the following Error\-Codes:
.TP 5
0
normal program termination
.br 
.TP 5
1
small error, wrong parameters, etc.
.br 
.TP 5
2
Server Problems, server not found, no default printer found, etc.
.br 
.TP 5
3
BAD error. Fields declared too short, too many printers, etc.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gtklpq(1), lpr(1), CUPS Software Users Manual
.br 
http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This program was written by T. Mueller, 2000, 2001, 2002.
.br 
It is licensed under the Terms of the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, 
.br 
see also http://www.gnu.org.

.SH "CONTACT"
The latest version of \fBGtkLP\fR is always available under
.br 
http://gtklp.sourceforge.net/
.br 
.br 
Feel also free to contact me.
.br 
Please mail also, if you like the software !!! ;\-)
